[Training Manual] 3/3 Chapter 7 (#3111)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: source/docs/training_manual/vector_analysis/spatial_statistics.rst

We'll use the area covered by streets.

* Start a new project.
* Add your :guilabel:`roads` layer, as well as the :guilabel:`srtm_41_19_4326`
  raster file (elevation data) found in :file:`exercise_data/raster/SRTM/`.

.. note:: You might find that your SRTM DEM layer has a different CRS to that of

>     the roads layer. QGIS is reprojecting both layers in a single CRS. For the

Reviewer: It depends on the individual algorithm. Usually they will use "whatever makes sense" eg the "count points in polygon" algorithm will use the polygon layer's crs as the reference crs, and reproject points to match. In this case the raster layer crs will be used.

    following exercises it does not matters this difference, but feel free to
    reproject a layer in another CRS as shown in this module.

> * Open |toolbox|.

Reviewer 2: Mine is strong, as exposed in the two discussions. We should avoid those untranslatable texts.

...............................................................................

* To create a sample dataset from the raster, you'll need to use the
  :menuselection:`Raster Analysis --> Sample raster values` algorithm within
  |toolbox|. This tool samples the raster at the points locations and copies the
  raster values in another field.

* Select :guilabel:`random_points` as the layer containing sampling points, and
  the SRTM raster as the band to get values from. The default name of the new
  field is ``rvalue``, change it if you want:

  .. image:: img/sample_raster_dialog.png
     :align: center

Now you can check the sampled data from the raster file in the attributes
table of the :guilabel:`Random points` layer, they will be in a new field with

> the name you have chosen.

Reviewer 2: If they did not check the data at the beginning (did they?), I don't know

A possible sample layer is shown here:

.. image:: img/random_samples_result.png
   :align: center

> The sample points are classified by their value such that red points are at

Reviewer 2: which field is used? (just to help them reproduce if they want to check). sthg like:
```suggestion
The sample points are classified by their ``rvalue_1`` field such that red points are at
```

Now get the basic statistics for this layer.

> * Click on the |sum| icon in the toolbar. A new panel will pop up.

Author: done

Now get the basic statistics for this layer.

* Click on the |sum| icon in the toolbar. A new panel will pop up.
* In the dialog that appears, specify the :guilabel:`Sampled Points` layer as
  the source.
* Select the :guilabel:`rvalue_1` field in the field combo box which is the
  field you will calculate statistics for.
* The :guilabel:`Statistics` Panel will be automatically updated with the
  calculated statistics:

.. image:: img/basic_statistics_results.png
   :align: center

> .. note:: You can copy the values by clicking on the |editCopy| button and paste

Author: yep, tooltip added

Minimum
  The minimum value.

Maximum
  The maximum value.

Range
  The difference between the minimum and maximum values.

Q1
  First quartile of the data.

Q3
  Third quartile of the data.

Missing (null) values
  Total count of values with missing data-

|basic| |FA| Compute a Distance Matrix
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Create a new point layer as a ``Temporary layer``.
* Enter edit mode and digitize three points somewhere among the other points.
* Alternatively, use the same random point generation method as before, but
  specify only **three** points.
* Save your new layer as :guilabel:`distance_points` in the format you prefer.

To generate a distance matrix using these points:

* Open the tool :menuselection:`Vector Analysis --> Distance matrix`.
* Select the :guilabel:`distance_points` layer as the input layer, and the
  :guilabel:`Sampled Points` layer as the target layer.
* Set it up like this:

.. image:: img/distance_matrix_setup.png
   :align: center

* If you want you can save the output layer as a file or just run the algorithm
  and save the temporary output layer in a second moment.

> * Click :guilabel:`Run` to generate the distance matrix layer.

Reviewer 2: I'd agree with @ghtmtt

> * Click :guilabel:`Run` to generate the distance matrix layer.

Reviewer 3: The output in this case is **not** a distance matrix!  A distance matrix is a matrix where the rows and columns represent points, and a the value in (i,j) is the distance between point i and point j.

> * Click :guilabel:`Run` to generate the distance matrix layer.

Author: also the name of the output layer in the UI is `Distance matrix` and actually what we are generating is a distance matrix it is only a summarized version of a distance matrix, but it represents the concept

* Open the attribute table of the generated layer: values refer to the distances
  between the :guilabel:`distance_points` features and their two nearest points
  in the :guilabel:`Sampled Points` layer:

.. image:: img/distance_matrix_example.png
   :align: center

> The distance matrix calculates distance statistics among each point of the input

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This variant of the `Distance Matrix` tool calculates distance statistics for each point of the input
```

> layer and points of the target layer. Each field of the output layer contains

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
layer with respect to the nearest points of the target layer. Each field of the output layer contains
```

> information of the mean, standard deviation, minimum and maximum distance of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the mean, standard deviation, minimum and maximum distance of
```

> the points.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the points in the input layer.
```

> |basic| |FA| Nearest Neighbor Analysis

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|basic| |FA| Within Layer Nearest Neighbor Analysis
```

Reviewer 2: +0 here. I don't really like static titles, those that simply name a tool but I don't fully get the meaning of "within layer" part

Reviewer 3: This is a single layer tool as opposed to a between layers tool, I think that stating this is increases the precision and should be a good thing.  If you don't like my suggestion, it could be rephrased to "Nearest Neighbor Analysis (within layer)" or "Nearest Neighbor Analysis (single layer)"

Author: ok changed so we should all agree :)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> To do a nearest neighbor analysis:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To do a nearest neighbor analysis for a point layer:
```

.. image:: img/interpolation_comparison_1000.png
   :align: center

> 

Reviewer 2: is this recommandation no longer necessary?
